Well, hello there.
It's lovely to meet you.
This is the tough cookie self-defense system.
You are here to learn how to feel safer and stronger wherever you go, whether you're staying home alone
or going to work or walking your city at night or traveling in a new city or just living your life.
And that is exactly what this training will do.
I'm going to teach you the mental and physical skills you need to protect yourself in any situation,
ideally without ever having to fight but being ready to, if necessary, fighting not good.
But he must fight.
We.
So who am I?
I'm Rebecca on not and not hung on as in the opposite of off as in get on with it already.
I am a trained martial artist, self-defense instructor and former stunt woman who has also survived
my own share of violence and abuse.
I created Tough Cookie to fill a gap I found in my own search for a more comprehensive self-defense
training that spoke to a woman's experience from a woman's perspective because self-defense is not about
fighting.
Self-Defense is about survival.
Period.
That's why we call ourselves survivors, not fighters.
It is still self-defense if you don't fight at all yet.
Yeah.
So let's talk overview, here's what we're going to cover in this tough cookie self-defense course.
This training series consists of eight modules, each containing videos that describe and demonstrate
that week's lessons and then homework assignments for you to practice them on your own.
The eight modules are laid out in a super simple, logical order of steps for your self-defense.
Each module will teach you the next step in this order.
I call these The ABCs of self-defense because they're as easy as the ABCs and because they're laid out
as such.
First step is a for a void in this lesson, you'll master your situational and self awareness both what's
around you and what's happening in your body as you react.
Your gut intuition, you'll learn what to look out for and how to assess any suspicious behavior or
potential threats.
So you can avoid them entirely.
That is your very best case scenario.
Next is be for BackTrack.
This is your one and only goal in self-defense not to fight, but to escape to safety.
If you must fight in order to get away to safety, then do so, but only as far as is necessary to get
away and no further.
So in this lesson, you'll learn how to use your situational awareness to keep an eye on escape routes
and identify people and places of safety.
So you know where to escape to that safe from the danger in front of you?
After that is see for control.
This lesson covers what to do if you cannot get away to safety and how to then maintain control of yourself,
both physically and mentally.
We'll cover your ready stance and how to use your body and voice to set boundaries.
Get warning and call attention to yourself, which may also help de-escalate the situation and prevent
physical confrontation.
This also helps protect you legally.
We'll cover the legalities of self-defense so you know where to draw the line, both for your local
self-defense laws as well as for your own conscience.
Next D For a defendant, this is the most traditional part of this self-defense series, and no self-defense
training would be complete without it.
If you cannot avoid, evade or de-escalate the situation, then you are going to need to actually physically
defend yourself.
We will go over a basic set of moves that you can use in any situation and practice using them against
the most common types of attacks.
The key is to not overcomplicate it with fancy maneuvers that you're not likely to remember in the moment,
but you use the same simple moves over and over that you know will be effective and easy to remember,
and only insofar as to help you escape to safety after you get away to safety by any of the previous
steps.
Then we go into E!
For events and evaluate, because once you've escaped to safety, it's still not over.
This is where far too many self-defense trainings fall short, but this part is just as important,
if not more so.
This is the time to seek help and speak up both for your own sake and for the sake of your assailants.
Next target.
About 75 percent of sexual assaults go unreported, and less than one percent of assailants are actually
punished.
That needs to change.
We'll go over how to find an authority figure or law enforcement and report what happened, what to
say and what evidence to give reporting.
What happened can also be incredibly beneficial for your own recovery, because the more we talk about
these things, the more support we all have and the bigger difference we can all make.
We are stronger together.
Remember, you are a survivor, not a victim, and you are not alone.
The last step is f for familiarize.
It is vital to your survival that you make each of these steps and moves muscle memory.
In the moment danger strikes, you will not have time to stop and think about what to do.
You will only have a split second to react, so we will go over ways that you can practice these steps
in your own home with what you already own.
Over and over and over until they become instant.
Practice is the key.
The more prepared you are, the better equipped you'll be to stay safe wherever you go.
And that's it.
Just six steps as easy as a b c d e f, this is your step by step guide.
A veritable alphabet soup of.
Has to navigate any sketchy situation, like when you're alone in a dark alley and you hear a weird
noise, or when that guy looks at you kind of creepily and gives you the goose bumps, or when someone
you know, crosses your personal boundaries and makes you feel uncomfortable.
When that happens, all you need to do is breathe and remember your ABCs.
Take these steps one at a time in this order.
If you can't achieve step a, you move on to Step B and so on down the alphabet.
The bottom line is just to keep it all super simple.
It's really just common sense.
All self-defense should be common sense.
There's more to being strong than having big muscles.
You're a tough cookie.
We value intuition, resilience and mental strength as much as physical strength.
They are two sides of the same coin, and both are vital to your survival.
So as you go through your tough cookie self-defense lessons, keep that in mind and be sure you practice
and cultivate those mental skills as much as the physical ones.
I focus on both equally in this self-defense system, so make sure you do too.
You'll want to bring all of your mental focus and your physical readiness with you to every lesson.
You'll also want to have a few physical items with you now in terms of clothing.
I recommend wearing items that you both already wear often and can move around in easily without injuring
yourself or, you know, the clothes.
The idea is to train in conditions as close to real life as possible.
For example, I will be wearing my usual t shirts or attentats and jeans with a good amount of stretch
or mum.
But if you normally wear dresses or skirts, then please practice in those so you can get used to what
that will feel like and be like then for shoes.
I normally wear boots or sneakers, so I will be practicing those.
But if you normally wear heels, I might recommend first drawing these lessons in no hue or low heel
option and then advancing to train in your heels the second time around.
And I definitely recommend not attempting these moves in flip-flops.
If you normally wear sandals, try to wear a pair that has a heel strap or some other means of securing
your shoe to your foot so it doesn't fly off when you kick the run.
Then in terms of other equipment, you'll want some sort of sturdy padding option that you can practice
hitting when we get to that deep or defend model.
So let's see what you have around the house that could work.
You could use a firm pillow or mattress or large foam roller or even your couch.
Whatever you can find, the firmer, the better.
If you have any kind of large canvas bag, you can fill that with something firm, but with a little
give like raw rice or beans or glass beads.
If you're a crafter or dirt or sand, if you have any access to that protest, too much dirt or sand
will make your bag too heavy, so you'll want to pack around small amounts of that with something lighter
and softer, like rags or old clothes, baseball gloves or other large hand gloves.
Also make excellent striking pads, especially to use with a buddy.
Now, if you do already have any actual martial arts or boxing pads, then you are definitely set.
Or if you're willing to buy one.
I do love this square punching pad that I got on Amazon, and I paid less than $30 for this large canvas
heavy bag on eBay.
But you don't have to buy anything if you don't want to.
I'm not going to make you shell out more money.
You could absolutely learn all of this with things you already own.
The only other thing you'd ideally want for these lessons is a training buddy.
Now, in these hard times, that might be a bit difficult to come by.
If you do have a housemate or partner who's also interested in these lessons, that perfect, you can
learn and practice together.
But if you live alone or if no one in your household is keen on letting you practice on them?
Fear not, you can still learn all of this on your own.
I recommend figuring out a way to rig up that sturdy padding we talked about, so it stays at striking
height without you having to, you know, hold it up.
It will need to be rigged.
Pretty sturdy, though, because you will be practicing hitting it as hard as you can.
We'll build up to that.
But the idea is to train it as realistic of conditions as possible.
That means using your full force in a high, adrenalized state and from all sides and angles so you
can get used to what it feels like to hit and be hit.
Now, obviously, to be hit hard is a little harder without a body, but we will make it work.
The idea is to push yourself further than you have before further than you're comfortable further than
you even think possible.
Because your assailant won't care where your comfort level is, they will push right past it.
And so should you as you train.
You won't know what you're fully capable of until you try.
That said, pacing is a different thing.
We all got -- to do.
And times are particularly tough right now.
Now, that may mean you've got gobs of free time you don't know what to do with.
But it can also mean you're busier than ever.
This is very small time commitment.
Just an hour or two a week.
But these modules are here for you whenever you're ready for them.
So go at your own pace.
You don't have to do one module a week.
You can take a few weeks if you need or months even.
That's not ideal, but hey, if it's all you got, I'll take it.
Remember, this is not a style or a sport.
You don't need any fancy martial arts moves or a certain belt.
You just need these simple steps and a new frame of mind.
Self-Defense is an instinct you already have inside you.
You just need to learn how to harness it and find the courage to use it.
We'll go more into each of these ABCs in greater depth in the following videos.
So grab your laptop and your courage and away we go.